So, why use Java 11 when there
are newer versions available?
Well first and foremost, the
current java certification
exam, the 1Z0-819 uses Java 11.
So, that's your primary
reason right there.
But looking into it a bit more,
Oracle releases a ton of versions
of Java, but only designates one
version as their LTS version,
LTS being Long Term Support.
Java 11 is the version that
Oracle designate as their
long-term support version of Java.
We've got a link on screen as you
can see there, if we have a look at
the Oracle Java roadmap table here.
Again, we can see only one version is
marked as LTS, that's Java release 11.
And you can see that version 11
became available in September 2018.
It has Premier Support until
September 2023 and Extended Support
until at least September 2026.
Note also that many of the versions
they got released after the version
11, namely 12 through 14 have
effectively no longer got support.
Premier Support has expired
and Extended Support
is no longer available.
Even version 15 released
only in the same month I'm
recording this video has Premier
Support until only March 2021.
So, that's how Oracle roll.
They effectively release an LTS
version and support that for the
longer term and then incremental
versions with new features, but expire
fairly quickly in terms of support.
So what many, perhaps most
commercial companies using Java
will do is, use the stable LTS
version of Java which is version 11.
No company is going to want
to release a version of its
software using features from
an unsupported version of Java.
And I think if you use the
search engine to search
around for this, you'd find
this is pretty common advice.
I've got one link on screen
here I can show you talking
about don't ever put a non-java
LTS version into production.
And the development teams
should avoid non-long-term
support releases at all costs.
Pay attention to the Java
release cycle to make sure
your updates are supported.
Larger companies using Java
certainly wouldn't be looking to
release software from versions
of Java that have got no support.
Right, so another question that
I do get though is, what about
future LTS versions of Java,
because presumably at some point,
Java version 11 will no longer
be the long term support version.
Well, that's true.
If we check out this java version
history link here, scroll down, you
can see that Java SE 17 is the next
long-term support version of Java
that's due out in September 2021.
But don't be too concerned.
Companies won't immediately
rush to upgrade to Java 17
because they have support for
Java 11 until 2023 at a minimum.
Sure, at some point, you'll
probably want to upgrade your
Java certification to Java 17,
but realistically, you have for
at least two to three years before
you have to worry about it and
before Java 17 becomes mainstream.
I mean look at Java 8 to see
what's happened in the past.
It's still used by many
companies today and is
still supported by Oracle.
Oracle realizes that companies
investing in Java for their software
development don't want to chop and
change versions on a regular basis.
This is why the LTS versions only
come out every few years and are
then supported in the long term.
And remember, the Java certification
exam is all about Java 11.
For now, Focus on Java 11.
And hopefully, you now know why
we're using Java 11 in this course.
So download and use Java 11.
Now, if you're confused as to which
JDK to download because many vendors
including Oracle, Amazon, and
others have their own JDK version.
Well, in general, it doesn't matter.
Just choose a reputable one,
a company that you recognize.
So long as it's a JDK version
11, you're good to go and it'll
certainly work in this course.
But if you want to know what
my recommendation is, watch
the Which JDK to download
video later in this section.
Alright, so let's move
on now to the next video.